# Vision

The primary focus for this project is to provide an extensible tool that can combine compliance rule-sets (or standards) with automation to facilitiate automated-auditing and real-time reporting for systems (infrastructure, applications, and other configurations). Through the utilization of the Open Security Controls Assessment Language (OSCAL), standards documents and/or other rule-sets can define when a given system is compliant, and automated tooling can perform point-in-time or continuous auditing that reports on the current state of provisioned or deployed systems.

Workflow for execution would include a model where OSCAL documents existed for declaring a universe of controls that _can_ be satisfied for a given system. These documents would include (where applicable) _when_ the control is statisfied and, when ingested by the tool, the automation would perform validation that a control is or is-not compliant. Reporting would be generated in OSCAL for visualization in GRC tooling. Extensiblity is at the forefront for this project, as compliance is established across many technologies (Cloud/Infrastructure/application/etc). 

This is impactful to many environments and workflows that ultimately determine the security of which compliance is established. For environments that must maintaiin high-levels of compliance with standards documents (for security), this may be automation that facilitates automating (where possible) auditing/reporting of documents. While the contributing factor for developing this tooling is to automate systems against existing standards - it has been discussed how this can be extended to support systems still under development. Given that the tool executes from inputs declared in OSCAL, per conditions established in the controls, compliance can mean existing documents as well as rule-sets that are internal to teams or enterprises that develop infrastructure, platforms, applications to specific standards. These may include platforms as well as applications. For single-pane visualization, this can include controls that are non-automatable and providing a mechanism for version-controlling a given report for auditing purposes.